Devi Puja,Pune India, 1990-12-03
Initially, I will Talk in English
This is not working.
Initially I will talk in English language
and later on I will talk in Marathi.
Yesterday, I have told
you in detail
that we have got so much
treasure of spirituality;
you should have some
appreciation for that.
When we do not have respect for ourselves,
how will we be
appreciative of our treasure?
Every person in India,
in that also a person from Maharashtra
should be reckoned as an
image of ardent love for God.
We ourselves don’t have
any idea about ourselves.
If we are staying in a village
and are facing lot of troubles,
then we feel that
we are insignificant beings.
It is not like that.
You are going to be of great use;
only thing is that we should
remember certain things.
First and foremost thing is that
we should be completely aware
about religion (“dharma”).
Every religion that is prevalent in
our country or in any other country,
in all those countries we can say
that, it is only been mechanized
or in all it has been made
as a means to earn money.
This cannot be
religion (“dharma”).
God does not understand money,
cannot understand bank, nothing.
If someone asks me to write a
cheque, I do not understand it,
I ask someone else to
write it and I will sign it.
The people here who plunder your money in
the name of God,
to give them even a single penny
is wrong, this is the first thing.
And any person who wears a
saffron robe and comes,
we start prostrating in front of them.
The person has come here after being
released from jail
and is now wearing a saffron robe,
this thought does not come
to anyone’s mind.
We directly start.
The people from villages are simple
(“sadhe”) and straight forward (“saral”) –
if he says “See, if you give so much money,
then so much good will happen to you”,
he will start giving money
to such a person.
Sometime back, I had gone to a village,
everyone started coming
“we have to take darshan (see)
of Shri Mataji”; one woman came
and she gave me twenty five paise.
I told her that I don’t take money;
She said okay, then I will
give you one rupee, Mataji.
Means it does not go out of their minds,
it is fixed in their minds that
money has to be offered to God.
But does that God
understand anything money?
All that is filled in our minds
should be taken out first
that any person who asks for money,
such a person is definitely
not close to God.
This should be explained to
all the villagers by everybody.
We have many simple (“saadhe”)
innocent (“bhole”) people
and that is why anywhere
if you just place a stone,
coat it with vermilion (“sindoor”)
then someone sits in front of
it to make money.
Anyone who comes and goes will start prostrating
(“lotangan”) in front of it, offering two paise to him.
Saints like Nrusinha Saraswati
have done a lot of work on this.
They have lambasted everyone and
tried their best
but nobody understands it.
Saints have, amongst them,
a Brahmin, Nrusinha Saraswati
used to thrash that person,
used to throw away the
stone laid out by him.
Eknath (a saint) was
troubled a lot by people
because he partook food at Mahaarwada
(a dwelling for low castes India).
Do monks (“sadhu”) and
saints (“sant”) have any caste?
Who is a Mahar,
who is a Brahmin?
And if you see our scriptures (“shastras”),
if you peep a bit deeper,
you will come to know
who has written Shri Rama’s character?
That fisherman, Valmiki.
That fisherman had written the
character of Shri Rama, not any Brahmin.
So all the madness that is within us
regarding caste and
creed should be removed.
There is no meaning to it.
It is an indication of stupidity.
It is said about the Devi “yaa Devi sarva
bhooteshu, jaati roopena Sansthitha”.
What does this caste mean?
What is a caste?
Caste means something within you
which you like or your inborn
intelligence is what caste is.
If any person is in search of
God then that person is a Brahmin.
Das Ganu says
“Amhasi mhanati Bramhan, Amhi jaanile
nahi Bramha, Amhi Kasale Bramhan?”
(“I call myself a Brahmin, I have not known the Brahma principle within me, then how can I be a Brahmin?”)
He himself being a Brahmin, says so.
So all this issue of caste
and creed should be forgotten.
In Sahaja Yoga we do not
believe in any type of caste or creed.
We do not believe in
widowhood, first thing.
Women are widows, and men?
They are never reckoned as
having lost a wife (widower).
By doing this, we have subjected
women to a lot of atrocity.
To oppress can never
be righteousness.
Any kind of atrocity is Iniquity
and any kind of injustice
is also Iniquity.
So when you come to Sahaja Yoga,
you need to bear in mind
that all these atrocious practices,
due to which Hell has been
created in our country,
we don’t believe them and
will never believe in such things.
In the case of caste, we
have a very horrible situation.
And to speak of marriages
now we don’t
have any missions to accomplish,
we don’t have to climb Simhagadh (name of a fort
in Maharashtra which means the “Lion’s fort”),
we do not have to conquer
any fort, nothing like that.
So what else can one do sitting idly – just
arrange our sons and daughters marriages.
That’s it.
There is nothing else to do.
It is very surprising.
I realized that they put me in 96 Kuli
Maratha community when I was born.
I asked, why did you put me in
that 96 Kuli Maratha community?
In that clan, all are drunkards
and they torture their
women so much;
and in case of marriages,
it can happen only within the same
clan, the 96 Kuli Maratha community;
all are useless people.
If any girl is given to a
well-educated boy then finished.
Searching takes so much effort – but
they subject the girl to so much torture.
What is this behaviour?
Are this 96 kuli created by God?
Everyone’s nose, face looks the same,
everyone’s issues are similar
when the way of laughing
and talking is similar,
when they are children of the same mother,
how can it be said that this
person cannot marry that person,
that person cannot marry this person.
Then take dowry, take this and take that
Sahaja Yoga has come to cleanse all
these dirty things in our caste/community.
To make everything
clean and tidy.
See how much trouble
it is to do all this.
Today you have a daughter
so you face these issues.
Tomorrow if you have a son,
you will trouble others similarly.
Although, Sahaja Yoga belongs to
sages (“sadhu”) and saints (“sant”),
it does not belong to
Ascetics (“sanyastha”).
Being in the society,
helping society to progress,
helping in refining the thoughts
of the people in the society
Sahaja Yoga is such a catalyst.
In your life, those who call themselves
as Sahaja Yogis,
if they are also having a narrow vision,
then they need to realize that they
have not yet understood Sahaja Yoga.
This is a work of the universe,
we have set out to unite the world,
instead of that – we belong to this city,
you belong to that city,
this and that
Has this given any benefit?
Has anybody
benefitted from this?
What is the benefit from this,
first you should first observe this.
Has anyone benefitted by
marrying in the same community?
The other day, one woman
came to fight with me on this issue.
I showed her 10 of her relatives, said
now see these people,
your relations by marriage.
But Dnyaneshwar has mentioned in
Pasaydaan that
“Techi Soyarika hoti te”
which means “these
are your relations”.
What was mentioned in Pasaydan
that indicates Sahaja Yoga?
Sages, saints have not accepted this;
how much they were tortured because
they were the children of ascetics .
Ascetics had children.
Did anyone’s father
tell them to do this?
How much they have been tortured,
how much Tukaram was tortured,
how much was Eknath tortured
as he ate food at a low
caste person’s place.
It is like this. While staying
on the land of sages and saints,
we should behave like them.
Look at their preaching’s (“abhanga”),
what  have they told –
what has Tukaram said to Vitthala
“Tu mahar jhalas he bara jhala”  “It is
good that you became a lower caste person”.
Vitthala didn’t
assault him for that.
“Zala Mahar Pandharinath” – “Pandarinath
(Vitthala) has become a lower caste person.”
He has said such a profound
thing, but does it get into anyone’s head?
If Pandharinath can become a
lower caste person, then who are you?
Just chanting the devotional songs of sages
and saints and banging the discs
but the essence of it
should percolate.
All of them worked on the
superstition blind faith and herd mentality.
Dnyaneshwar told about the path
further and then said (out of frustration),
I don’t want to do this and then
took his entrancement (“Samadhi”).
These idiots won’t listen,
sometime later when they realize,
they may read these very books.
Now all these foreigners
read their books.
Now their tour of
Maharashtra is over.
They perceive you people
sitting next to God as for them
Maharashtra is a great place.
They really consider Maharashtra as a
Great country (“Maha- rashtra”)
and they consider people
of Maharashtra as God.
Because such great traditions you have,
you are sitting in the land of saints.
you have taken birth here.
Means how great you
must be is what they think.
But old habits die hard.
Again, the same things.
Now yesterday, everyone had
catch on their Vishuddhi chakra.
This chakra. Why?
I know, tobacco.
In Maharashtra, one cannot
do without tobacco,
even if it causes cancer or death.
From where this evil has come in
Maharashtra, I don’t understand.
The poor sages and saints,
all of them advised
not to consume intoxicating substances.
Sai Nath had burnt all the
tobacco and smoked it up,
like Shiva (Shankara), but still
everyone is stuck to tobacco.
Wherever they go they consume tobacco,
even while going to Vitthala they consume
tobacco before leaving.
Vithala does not
like tobacco at all.
Vitthala sits on the Vishuddhi Chakra
and still why do you consume
tobacco and go to (worship) him?
You should know the purpose,
you should hold to the gist of it.
Then you say for the sake of it ,
Mataji we believe in God so much.
Some ladies were telling me,
Lady – We worship the Devi so much.
Mataji – What else?
Lady – Well, my husband
drinks alchohol a bit. Mataji – Is it?
And then becomes disgraced.
And your (husband)?
Lady – He likes to play cards.
Mataji -Is that so?
So after playing cards, he goes
to perform aarati, Devi’s aarati.
This impurity has increased
very much in our society,
this is not acceptable to the Goddess,
all such things are not
acceptable to the Goddess at all.
Then you get whipped.
Then when you get whipped, you
will ask why did this happen to us?
I am such a great devotee of God,
I am such a great devotee of Shiva,
I am such a great devotee of Dattatreya,
then how did this happen to me?
Hence, first get connected with HIM.
Devotees of Dattatreya should definitely
be having a trouble of the stomach,
take it in writing,
I am not lying.
Anyone who is having a stomach problem,
ask them ‘are you a
devotee of Dattatreya’. ‘Yes.’
They should have the trouble of the
stomach because Dattatreya, is the deity
residing around this area of the stomach which is the
place of our righteousness (“dharma”) , called the Void,
we don’t have a photo
here so you can’t see it.
People keep on chanting Datta Datta
in vain without getting connected to HIM.
In real sense, Datta is
actually Mohammed Sahib.
So the Muslims will also
have the trouble of stomach.
Simply chanting Mohammed – Mohammed,
Muslims will not achieve anything.
Need to have connection.
Even they do not understand
sometimes, that we believe in God
and then how is this coming on us?
Why are we in such trouble?
The reason for that is that
you have still not understood.
Mohammed Sahib has told this specifically
that such a time will come which he has
called as “Qiyama”, means resurrection,
resurrection will take place; at that
time your hands will speak.
His preachings are
about Sahaja Yoga only.
One such person will
come who will tell everything.
Everything has been told.
Muslims are not some other people,
Hindus are not some other people ,
everyone belongs to us.
But when you have not found the path,
you see it this way only.
It is the same for the blind.
Like blind people cannot see green and red,
similarly they cannot
see that we all are one.
That is why these quarrels,
these skirmishes and what not.
Does this have any meaning?
Quarrelsome nature is very
common place in Maharashtra.
The other thing is family feuds.
If anyone advances even slightly,
then (others) start poisoning my ears.
I have decided to close
my ears now, I say.
No one knows this that
I understand everything.
They will come and tell me
that this person is like this,
a terrible politician, Mataji,
please be careful of this person.
I said that I know more
about him than you.
I will tell you
everything later on.
They will then look at
me with great dismay.
How did you know?
I can understand, don’t
tell me about useless things.
This person’s (views) on that person, that person’s
(views) on this person, just no end to this.
Then how will Sahaja
Yoga proliferate?
These people don’t
have these things.
Not at all.
Once these people come to Sahaja yoga,
they become so humble,
they are so humble
that they have
achieved a great thing.
We do not have
any idea about this.
No quarrels, no skirmishes, no badmouthing
each other
because I do not like it.
Speak up right up front,
not behind the back.
These people, who do
not have the foundation,
do not have the
perspectives of the saints,
who did not have kings
like Shri Ram ,
did not have warriors like Shivaji ,
those people have advanced so
much, and where are we languishing?
They have achieved so
much then why shouldn’t we?
How great our past
heritage (“poorva pithika”),
we are people who have sat on
thrones and how are we behaving?
People get obligated
to useless people
and being obligated,
they lose their virtuosity.
In this Maharashtra we have to do
a lot of awakening
and it will happen because
Maharashtra has this heritage (“sampada”)
that is not present anywhere
else in this world.
That is why I am putting
in so much effort over here.
That is why I have
taken birth in Maharashtra
and have been putting efforts in
Maharashtra since so many years.
So people should realize
what their responsibility is,
what Maharashtra’s
responsibility is?
Even if you are staying in a village,
are uneducated, still your
internal state is very superior.
So you need to achieve that state
and show the whole world
that an ordinary farmer from
Maharashtra
is also of a very high caliber.
It is easy to parrot things out,
will keep on reading Mahtmya
like a learned ass.
What are you going
to achieve by reading.
Revision after revision,
one weekly discourse after another.
Has anybody
gained by doing that?
Whichever village you go, ‘Mataji, there
is a weekly discourse going on.’
What will happen due to
that discourse of yours?
Is it going to do any good?
So you need to get your awakening
and being awakened, you need to
understand why you are having this plight?
Why did we get
into all this trouble?
And to get your awakening is not difficult; it
is a possession (“sampada”) inbuilt within you.
The complete
power is within you.
What is yours needs
to be given to you.
‘What is yours is with you’
and it needs to be given to you.
There is nothing here for me to give
and take;
there is no favor from me.
Does Mother do any favors?
You believe if you have to.
But Mother does everything
for her own happiness.
Now the specialty of this
city is , of this place is that,
the land we have taken at Shera
is only after seeing the vibrations
and then we took this land.
Now (people) are going to
come and stay here,
so on behalf of you all I have
informed them that we
have purchased the place.
These are all devotees
of the Goddess,
so they need to be looked after.
There is a designated location
of the Goddess here
and in front of them;
we should
show how deep you all are.
You can prosper in all aspects.
Only thing is that you
first need to achieve depth.
Otherwise after you progress,
you will again start drinking
or will do some filthy thing.
The first thing you need is that
your inner power should be awakened.
You should have this desire in you
that we need to get our awakening.
Today you have come
for the Pooja,
in the Pooja, energy flows.
Usually we don’t allow people
who are not Sahaja Yogis.
Those who have not got their awakening,
we do not allow them to come for the Pooja,
because he cannot do it,
he cannot understand it.
But if you are sitting in humility,
everyone will benefit from the Pooja and
everyone will feel satisfied.
So you have to sit in humility.
We should keep in mind that
we need to achieve something.
This is going to happen through
the virtuosity accumulated in you.
After that you come and tell me.
Then I will get this letter, that ‘Mataji,
we are swimming in the ocean of joy.’
To give this, I am moving
around villages.
Since last 20 years
this effort is going on.
Now let’s see how much
work gets done in Maharashtra.
In that way, in Delhi, beyond Delhi in the
towns and villages, a lot of work is being done.
Same way it should happen here
because this is the land of saints
and this is your inheritance.
You need to satisfy the saints.
The saints should feel that these people
have got what we have given them.
It should not be a mere meaningless blabber
and also not just banging
the crymbals (discs).
The reverberations of the crymbals
that should emerge from you
and the arrangement for that is very easy.
The people who are sitting in
the sun can come and sit here,
there is space here in the
front, come and sit here.
There is time for Pooja,
come and sit here.
You can come here and sit, there
is space here, come in the front.
You can sit there,
after all you are at a height.
Come and sit at the front.
Come, like this
sit in the front.
Sit in the shade, it will
take a long time for this.
Don’t sit in the sun,
congregation (“mandali”)
don’t sit in the sun, don’t sit
in the sun. Sit in the shade.
It is a nice breeze blowing.
Alright.
Now who is coming for the Pooja?
Shri Mataji responding to a
question by Sahaja Yogi: Hmmm.
A Sahaja Yogi is asking a question
to Shri Mataji: Washing your feet.
Shri Mataji responding to a question by
Sahaja Yogi: Yaaa (Yes). Shri Ganeshas.
There are how, many
children here I think.
There will be many children here.
Can you check and come?
Small children between 5 to 10 years,
come and sit here.
4 to 10 years.
A Sahaja Yogi talking in the
background: Children 5 to 10 years old.
Shri Mataji: 4 to 10.
A Sahaja Yogi talking in the
background: 4 to 10 all the children.
Sit down.
Devi Puja,Pune India, 19901203